---
title: 'Diary'
date: 2023-04-16T21:39:24+12:00
draft: false
---

There are many benefits to keeping a diary, especially in terms of your mental health and keeping track of time. To futher explain the benefits here are six things which are benefical about keeping a diary or journal.

Diaries help to keep our thoughts organised. In them you can record events that occur daily, thoughts and feelings about these events and other things that happen in your life.
Writing in a diary can help your writing improve. To improve on something practicing often is the best method to use. So using a diary as a way to write often can be highly beneficial.
A diary cna be used to set and achieve your goals. Writing down ambitions has been proven to help you achieve them. By writing them down you can keep better track of your progress and stay motivated to reach your next milestone.
In a journal you can brain dump. This allows you to write down your frustrations, anxieties and issues. Doing so allows you to reduce stress which can accumulate overtime. Writing down everything you think of at a set point in the day, such as the morning or night time will let you have a constant point when you can release all of your stresses.
Using a diary will let you self-reflect. Having a consistent place you can look back on to see how you feel and think about certain things can be really beneficial as you can easily see how you have grown and changed as a person. It lets us stop and take a step back and reflect on ourselves.
Finally journaling can help improve your memory. Writing things down can help you remember them better. As your brain will make a stronger connection to the information you have learnt after writing it down.

As you can see there are many benefits from keeping a journal, so hopefully you will consider doing so to improve your life.
